It was a really great privilege
for us as Bethelites
to be able to study for six days.
The Governing Body
giving us time to study more
about Jehovah’s qualities was tremendous
to help build our spirituality.
For many Bethelites,
this was like a gift from Jehovah
because they had never attended before.
In fact, one couple
who had been 50 years in full-time service
had never attended the pioneer school before.
I’d been invited twice before,
but unfortunately,
both times I wasn’t able to go.
I felt like Jehovah
was giving me a third chance,
and this time I wouldn’t miss it.
At first, you feel a little like,
this is strange;
you’re at Bethel;
you’re not out pioneering.
But then,
when you’ve gone to the school
and you’ve seen what the school
actually does for your ministry,
it was really—
You can see why the Governing Body—
It was such a kind gift for them
to give us this privilege of coming.
You’re surrounded by people
who have been pioneers for years;
some have been to Gilead;
some have been in the traveling work;
some have conducted
pioneer schools themselves.
It’s the best.
Even though they’re
in this spiritual environment,
they need to be upbuilt.
As Bethelites,
we go out in service
not as much as we did
when we were pioneering.
So being able to have
an effective use of our time
in the ministry makes a big difference.
You learn a lot about the field ministry
in pioneer school.
So in a month when 30 hours was an option,
I applied to auxiliary pioneer
and I also tried to participate
a lot in the ministry on weekends.
This way I was able
to prepare for the school.
I think that every Christian
needs to have goals,
and even for us serving in Bethel,
we need goals.
So the main thing I learned from the school
is that even while working in Bethel,
I can do more for the congregation
and make a bigger effort in the ministry.
After the pioneer school,
I realized I needed to cultivate
more humility in my Bethel service
and the field ministry.
Because there’s so much spiritual food
available at Bethel,
it can become easy to neglect personal study.
Listening to the deeply meditated comments
from the students
and the instructors really stimulated me
to also meditate more deeply.
During the school,
I had to study more than usual,
so I had to set aside more time for reading
so as to be well-prepared for class.
It was really practical for me
to improve my ministry,
and it was really nice
because with this new school,
we had a demonstration
of what we have to avoid
and what is good to do.
There was a demonstration
about what not to do on a Bible study,
and I saw myself doing some of those things.
So I realized that I really needed
to get better at conducting Bible studies.
I remember one demonstration that taught us
how we can witness informally
in a supermarket line, for example.
That demonstration
gave me more confidence
to witness informally.
In the school,
we learned a lot about Jesus
—how he was hardworking, zealous,
and showed genuine interest
in the people around him.
That example helped me
to be more hardworking and zealous,
as well as to be more approachable
to those whom I work with.
That’s why we’re here in Bethel
—it’s to support the preaching work.
So it doesn’t matter what assignment we have.
In a way, it’s connected to that.
The fruitage of the spirit
is good not just for the ministry
but it’s good for everything in everyday life
toward our brothers and sisters.
Love is such an important quality
for Bethelites.
I work in the Computer Department,
but I don’t treat computers with love.
But the school strengthened my determination
to treat my brothers and sisters with love.
Out of all the other schools I’ve attended,
this school had the most impact on my life.
In just one week,
it strengthens our faith,
widens our view of things,
trains our conscience,
and deepens our love.
It definitely
stimulated the pioneer spirit.
Even though we’re not pioneers,
it helped us to understand
the importance of the pioneer service
and how it contributes
to our overall joy
in serving Jehovah.
So that’s something
that we would never want to neglect.
We really appreciated
the emphasis that was placed on that
and how it also helps to keep
our close relationship with Jehovah.